Hello sir,

I have worked through all the potential duplicates in our iNat data. 

There were a few different cases that came up. 

I classified each case in the attached CSV. The 'Check' column identifies and categorizes the issue and the 'Action' column records my actions / recommended actions:

1. apparent duplicates.
There are only a few of these. 
In one instance, I was personally guilty of posting duplicates to iNat so I just deleted the duplicate obs. So the solution here is just to refresh the iNat data.
However, there are a few other duplicate obs posted by other users which I cannot delete—so I suppose we will have to filter these out by observation ID?

2. not duplicate (time is not accounted for)
These are observations that appear to be duplicates because they represent the same species observed in the same place, on the same date, but time is not accounted for.
I checked each one manually, however, and they all represent independent observations. These can all be retained.

3 same time; but multiple / separate individuals
These appear to be duplicates because they represent the same species observed in the same place, on the same date and at the same time (down to the minute). Nevertheless, they represent observations of multiple and/or separate individuals—and are therefore independent. These can be retained.

4. instances where the same observation appears to be represented multiple times in our dataset (Xs)
I have flagged all instances of apparent duplicates where the exact same observation is represented multiple times in the CSV report you shared.
I am not sure how these errors were propagated but it doesn't look like the apparent redundancy is in our catalogue.
Maybe the algorithm you used to generate this report paired up apparent duplicates with the same observation multiple times and therefore copied multiple instances of the same observation? At any rate, the solution for all these cases should be just to check to ensure that all the observation IDs are indeed unique.

One other note
There are a slew of sea star observations by someone, all observed on such and such a date at 4:00 pm, that are a bit questionable. On review, they didn't obviously represent the same individuals but I think the best approach here is to contact that person and ask them if they would be willing to go through these observations and delete anything they think is redundant. Hopefully I can resolve that asap. Then all of these issues (except for the few we need to filter out) should be resolved on the next refresh of the catalogue.

Cheers
Andrew
